---
layout: post
title: Sura al-Qadr in plain English
subtitle: the Night of Decree
bigimg: /img/night.jpg
image: /img/quran.jpeg
share-img: /img/quran.jpeg
tags: quran tafseer decree chaper97
excerpt: The reward of fasting, praying, and doing all righteous deeds in this night exceeds the reward of doing righteous deeds in a thousand months that do not have this night. 
---
In the name of Allah, the Gracious, the Merciful.
## 1. We sent it down on the Night of Decree.
We have sent down this entire Quran which was preserved with Allah in the Slate to the lowest heaven on the night of Decree in the month of Ramadan. From therein, this Quran was revealed gradually on Prophet Muhammad based on earthly incidences over twenty-three years. 

## 2. But what will convey to you what the Night of Decree is?
And what makes you realize the greatness of this night and how the provision and all matters for the entire year are distributed in this night.

## 3. The Night of Decree is better than a thousand months.
The reward of fasting, praying, and doing all righteous deeds in this night exceeds the reward of doing righteous deeds in a thousand months that do not have this night. He who spends the night worshipping Allah on this night with earnestly seeking Allah’s reward will have his past sins wiped out. 

## 4. In it descend the angels and the Spirit, by the leave of their Lord, with every command.
The Archangel Gabriel and other angels descend on this Night by the leave of their Lord. The angels descend along with blessings and mercy of Allah, as they also descend when the Quran is recited and studied within discussion circles. That is why this night is a night of blessings, and Satan finds no scope to do harm in this night. 

## 5. Peace it is; until the rise of dawn.
Peace continues to prevail in the entire night till the dawn starts to appear. This night most probably repeats on the odd nights among the last ten nights of every Ramadan. 

