---
layout: post
title: Sura Quraish in plain English
subtitle: the tribe of Quraish
bigimg: /img/quran-black.jpg
image: /img/kaba.jpg
share-img: /img/kaba.jpg
tags: quran tafseer quraish chaper106
excerpt: Let you know O people of Makkah that if you disobeyed the message of my Messenger Muhammad, who called you to worship me alone and leave all deities then I can lift these two bounties from you, so you return to the misery of hunger and wars.  
---

In the name of Allah, the Gracious, the Merciful.
## 1. For the security of Quraish.
I have checked from the people of Makkah, the threat of the army of the elephant. As a result, now Makkah and its people stay in their home enjoying security and comfort.

## 2. Their security during winter and summer journeys.
Not only at home, but I have also secured them even when they travel for trade to distant lands to north (the Levant) during summer, or towards the south (Yemen) during winter. During these travels, no one touches them with harm because all the Arabs know well how Allah protects anyone who intends them wrong, as He protected them from the army of the elephant.

## 3. Let them worship the Lord of this House.
In return of these favors, let the people of Makkah then worship Allah alone and abandon all forms of associating deities with Allah who is the Lord of this house that because of which they gained honor among the people. 

## 4. Who has fed them against hunger, and has secured them against fear.
The Lord of this house has fed them against hunger and secured them against fear, whereas the places around them stay insecure and in hunger. Let you know O people of Makkah that if you disobeyed the message of my Messenger: Muhammad, who called you to worship me alone and leave all deities then I can lift these two bounties from you, so you return to the misery of hunger and wars.  
