---
layout: post
title: How Islam Paves the Roadmap Towards Achieving SDG 12
subtitle: 
bigimg: /img/garbage.jpg
image: /img/SDG12.jpg
share-img: /img/garbage.jpg
tags: sdg
excerpt: The SDG 12 is more relevant than ever in such hard times. Islam came up with its unique holistic solution that the entire mankind can benefit from.
---

# Introduction

SDG 12 addresses the issues related to excessive and irresponsible consumption
of natural resources. In this article I intend to shed some light on how Islamic values
and teachings play an instrumental role
in addressing the issues and challenges
related to SDG 12. These challenges face
countries, societies and individuals face
due to irresponsible consumption of natural
resources. In my view, the unique holistic
approach with which Islam addresses SDG
12 challenges can be found nowhere under
secular and materialistic worldviews. Here I
am attempting only to scratch the surface.

# Islam and SDG 12
**First**, the Quran makes it very clear that all
the resources we enjoy on earth (and the
entire universe) belongs to Allah.
Read Surah al-Maedah verse 17

> To Allah 'alone' belongs the kingdom
of the heavens and the earth and
everything in between. He creates
whatever He wills. And Allah is Most
Capable of everything.

**Second**, the Quran makes it clear that
we – son of Adam – were sent to this
world as Allah’s “Khalifa” or viceroy, who
successively inherit the resources of the
earth from one generation to other. This
noble title entails responsibility and taking
care of our environment.

Allah said in Surah al-Hadid verse 7:

> Believe in Allāh and His Messenger and
spend out of that in which He has made
you successive inheritors.

**Third**, the Quran teaches us that all the
natural resources are gifts from Allah
to mankind. Allah has subjected these
bounties to us so that we consume them
responsibly and use them in a way that
yields no harm rather bring benefit to us.

Allah says in Surah al-Jathiyah, verses 12
and 13:

> Allah is the One Who has subjected the
sea for you so that ships may sail upon
it by His command, and that you may
seek His bounty, and that perhaps you
will be grateful.

> He 'also' subjected for you whatever is
in the heavens and whatever is on the
earth—all by His grace. Surely in this are
signs for people who reflect.

Combining the three above facts entails
that we have a noble role to play on earth.
We cannot mess-up with what Allah
has given us in this world because we
will have to eventually meet Him on the
Day of Judgement, and we will be hold
accountable. This accountability attached
with bounty is a unique value-system under
Islam that brings harmony and responsibly between human and environment in terms
of sensible consumption.

**Fourth**, the Quran links irresponsible
consumption of Allah’s gifts (and showing
ingratitude) with decline of that society and
subjecting them to economic and political
instability in the form of hunger and fear.
This is evident in verse 112 from Surah
an-Nahl. As a footnote, this surah often
is given the nickname of surah an-Neam
(the surah of bounties) as it lists all sorts of
bounties Allah bestowed to mankind.

> And Allah sets forth the example of a
society which was safe and at ease,
receiving its provision in abundance
from all directions. But its people met
Allah’s favors with ingratitude, so Allah
made them taste the clutches of hunger
and fear for their misdeeds.

**Fifth**, Islam does not promote asceticism
where one abandons food, drink, and
material enjoyment, yet it regulates these
consumptions to be within boundaries.
Allah said in Surah al-A’raf, verses 31 and 32

> O Children of Adam! Dress properly
whenever you are at worship. Eat and
drink, but do not waste. Surely, He does
not like the wasteful.

> Ask, 'O Prophet, ' “Who has forbidden
the adornments and lawful provisions
Allah has brought forth for His
servants?” Say, “They are for the
enjoyment of the believers in this
worldly life, but they will be exclusively
theirs on the Day of Judgment. This is
how We make Our revelations clear for
people of knowledge.”

The Prophet -peace be upon him - said,
“the son of Adam has never filled a vessel
worse than his stomach. It would be
enough for a person to take morsels of
food that would keep his energy. If he
insists to eat, then let him keep one third
for food, one third for drink and leave one
third for breathing”. (Narrated by Tirmidhi
(2380), an-Nasai (6769), Ibn Majah (3349),
and Ahmad (17186))

**Sixth**, the Quran did not leave us with
theoretical guidelines alone, rather it
went to tell us stories of societies and
individuals who were perished due to their
irresponsibility towards Allah’s gifts and
bounties. Through these stories, Allah
conveys key lessons for later generations
and warns them that the same fate
will befall them if they repeat the same
behavior.
For example, read what has befallen the
people of Saba who enjoyed food security,
prosperous trade and political stability, but
they were irresponsible towards Allah’s
gifts.
Surah Saba, verses 15-17.

> Indeed, there was a sign for 'the tribe
of' Sheba in their homeland: two
orchards—one to the right and the
other to the left. 'They were told: ' “Eat
from the provision of your Lord, and be
grateful to Him. 'Yours is' a good land
and a forgiving Lord.”

> But they turned away. So, We sent
against them a devastating flood, and
replaced their orchards with two others
producing bitter fruit, fruitless bushes,
and a few 'sparse' thorny trees.

> This is how We rewarded them for their
ingratitude. Would We ever punish
'anyone in such a way' except the
ungrateful?

**Seventh**, one of the often-repeated term
in the Quran is “fasaad” or “corruption/
mischief” on earth. Some of the common
manifestation of this corruption is
irresponsible consumption of natural
resources, the spread of harmful
materials, the polluting the environment.
We read the story of Qarun in Surah al-
Qasas (verses 76-83) who symbolizes
a hedonistic ultra-rich who did not use
Allah’s gifts in a responsible way. His
advisers warned him that his ingratitude
to Allah’s favors and irresponsible
consumption was a form of “fasaad”
on earth. Read what they said to him in
verse 77:

> Rather, seek the 'reward' of the
Hereafter by means of what Allah has
granted you, without forgetting your
share of this world. And be good 'to
others' as Allah has been good to you.
Do not seek to spread corruption in the
land, for Allah certainly does not like
the corruptors.”

Thus, irresponsible consumption by the
super-rich is - according to the Quran- a
form of corruption on earth.
In another location, Allah describes vividly
the acts of a corrupted person in the
following verse (no. 205 of Surah al-
Baqarah).

> Whenever he attains authority, he goes
about the earth spreading mischief and
laying to waste crops and human life,
even though Allah (whose testimony he
invokes) does not love mischief.

**Eighth**, through its unique style, Surah
al-Ma’un opens with describing the
characters of a person who denies the Day
of Judgement. This person behaves badly
with the orphan, he does not feed the
poor, he shows-off and is unmindful of his
prayer, and finally he refuses “neighborly
needs”. These neighborly needs are
further explained in books of tafsir as
the basic needs that a person goes and
borrows from his neighbor, like (in our
times) screwdriver, an USB charger, an
utensil, and so on. Thus, Islam promotes
recycling, reuse, optimal utilization of
unused resources, sharing, and so on.

**Nineth**, unlike the consumer capitalism
who nudge the population towards
irrational consumption, Islam promotes
a responsible consumption. It brands
those who spend wastefully as “Satan’s
brothers” (as in Surah al-Isra’ verse 27)
and honors those who spend neither
wastefully nor stingily as “chosen servants
of Allah” (as in Surah al-Furqan verse 67).

**Tenth**, through the story of the Prophet
Yousef in the Quran, Allah gave later
generations a lesson on how governments
play vital role in setting responsible
austerity plans around rationalizing
consumption during the time of crises.

# IsDB and SDG 12
Given the above sketch of Islamic view on
achieving SDG 12, here are few humble
suggestions to integrate SDG 12 at the
Bank.

1. IsDB Institute can commission
research on the subject portraying
the holistic solution of Islam in
addressing SDG 12. The research
will bring not only the rich contents
from Quran and Hadith but also the
practical solutions adopted by the
early Islamic Caliphates in maintaining
a responsible consumer society.
The research can be structured
such that to appeal for both Muslim
communities as well as non-Muslim
audience. The Bank can own this
research and campaign its mass
publication as one of its niche
contributions to SDGs where other
MDBs can benefit from.
2. Enlightened by the above research,
the Bank can launch – in collaboration
with interested countries - randomized
control trials on pilot projects that
adopt SDG 12 solutions inspired
by Islamic values. Design of these
projects should have well defined M&E
system to evaluate the SDG 12 results.
3. Charity begins at home. The Bank can
introduce good corporate practices
and culture that portrait mature
consumer behavior and environment
friendly cultures.

# Conclusion

The world today is passing through
difficult times. The COVID-19 health crises
followed by the war in Ukraine created a
perfect storm that brought a very grimy
outlook on food production and income
inequality. The SDG 12 is more relevant
than ever in such hard times. Islam came
up with its unique holistic solution that
the entire mankind can benefit from.
These solutions promise stability, security,
prosperity, and development. It is about
time that we take these holistic Islamic
solutions seriously and give them a
chance to bring our societies back to its
glorious golden ages.

*note* this article was published in the Islamic Development Bank, [SDG digest](https://books.isdb.org/view/116277927/26/) Issue # 17 (May 2023). 